---
layout: post
title:      "My First Sinatra App Experience"
date:       2020-06-30 20:42:18 +0000
permalink:  my_first_sinatra_app_experience
---



When I started my Sinatra app I was anxious to say the least. I thought I wasn't ready. I made all the excuses to not push myself because I was so scared to fail. I was always a person who picked stuff up easily. Sinatra, coding in general, changed that for me. It took me out of my comfort zone. It started with me having a crazy month. Everything was going wrong and now on top of it, I had to make my first app. I had no idea what I was going to build. Then the day came where I had to start my project. I went to Learn's archive video page and searched "Sinatra". I told myself "there is no way I’m ready for this", but I pushed ahead and hoped for the best. 
I started thinking that I should start out my project by really trying to understand how everything flowed. How did a route flow? How did views relate to my route? How did all these files talk to each other? I had done the labs, I read the readme’s, but I felt lost. I felt like this was my nerves more than anything else. Flatiron did their job and I knew the material. I did not have it all memorized, but I knew how the code worked. I started creating my project from scratch just to get an idea of how it would all come together. I wanted to know how my files would talk to each other and how the "bolier plate" code interacted with other code. I created my MVC files, my Gem file, my Rakefile, my config.ru and well you get the idea, I created it all from scratch. Once I felt comfortable with what I had done I decided to delete it all!!!!
I then decided to create my project using the Corneal gem. I decided to do it this way because I did not want to take the awesome gem for granted. I wanted to know what it did for me. That is why I created my project from scratch first. I found out that the Corneal gem did pretty much everything I did from scratch but took less then 30 seconds to do it. I decided this was my approach to create my project. When I ran into an issue, I just researched the heck out of it. As time went on my project took shape and started becoming what I had envisioned. Each day as I saw my project grow from nothing to what it was becoming, the fear started melting away. I wasn't confused about Restful routes anymore. Everything was making sense. I had one feature in my project that I was struggling with for a few day and it was basically what my entire project was built for (no pressure right). Then I had that moment, the one when you realize that with code you can make things come to life, that the feature I wanted was finally working!!! The feeling I had was pure happiness. 
Then the moment came when I made my last commit. I was so excited. I looked back from where I had started to now and I realized I had learned so much. It was a great feeling to know that I thought of an app and now I actually had brought my app to life. I felt like a superhero. For anyone reading this who is scared or worried that they can't do this, keep going and don't quit because you just might surprise yourself with the results.

